My name is Dave and I am the front
end architect at Tim portal.
We are a company that
does workflows use for
distributed systems to make sure
that everything runs as planned.
Basically taking all of the hard
parts out of distributed systems,
asynchronous processes and
all that kind of stuff.
We're gonna talk a little
bit about Figma today.
This is Figma for developers.
What that basically means is kind of from
the perspective of a developer, right?
A lot of times if you're trying to learn
Figma, and you're an engineer, by default,
there's a lot of, it's designers
talking to designers, right?
This is a safe space where we can make
jokes about prototypal inheritance in
JavaScript and related to Figma.
And it's gonna be great.
So what are we gonna do in this course?
We're gonna learn a lot about creating
prototypes and user interfaces in Figma.
There's a lot of reasons why
you might do this, right?
There is the fact that matter is side
projects and that you might wanna build.
It's a lot easier if you have
some of the principles of design.
Sometimes if you work at a startup
like I did 10 months ago before we had
a designer on the team.
You need to do a certain amount of
the design yourself because nobody else is
going to do it for you.
And wouldn't it be nice if you
knew what you're doing, right?
And then the kind of final piece
that I kind of wanna kind of poke on
a little bit here is knowing
how to use the tools.
Not only helps them make your life easier
as you're implementing the designs.
If you have an amazing designer on your
team, they're going to hand you a figment.
One point they're gonna do everything they
can for that developer handoff right.
But then it'd be nice if you were
on the receiving end ready and
familiar with the tool as well.
And the other thing is that we're gonna
see is knowing how to use Figma not
only for yourself to build your eyes.
But also if you're working with a designer
who's using Figma helps you become
an equal partner there, right?
Where it's, hey, actually I know
what I need to do in this codebase,
whether it's reactive, svelte, or
view, or angular, or what have you.
Here are some ways that
we can work together and
maybe, you can even show
your designer a few things.
We're going to touch a lot
of design concepts, right?
And there's definitely a in that kind of
relationship with the designer piece,
this idea of a design system, right?
Maybe you're using something,
using tailwind or chakra or Mattel UI.
Or maybe at your company you're
kinda building your own.
A lot of those are kind of a joint
venture, between design and engineering.
We're kind of being on the same page,
both the how they're designed in Figma.
And then also how you go about
implementing those designs is incredibly
helpful and powerful.
Basically, makes everyone's life easier.
We're gonna touch a lot of
design concepts, but for
a full on just design principles.
There are two other front end masters
courses that you should check out.
Because I will say this right now, yes,
I've been a front end engineer for
longer than I care to admit.
I have a certain amount of experience
working with some really great designers.
That said having worked with a lot of
really great designers I understand
there's a difference between my specialty
as a engineering architect versus
a designer as well.
So just kinda keeping that in mind
this is kind of for developers,
by developers as well, right.
So we talked a little bit
about who is this for?
I would also, definitely developers.
And then also designers
who work with developers,
I think getting that other perspective
of how to put together a design system.
How to structure a UI prototype,
how to have reusable components that
are easy to kind of work your
way around for the engineer.
I think as a designer that's
super helpful as well.
All right, so what do you need?
Basically all you need is a Figma
account and ideally a web browser.
Whether it's one you downloaded or
the one that came with your
computer either one should be fine.
There's some kind of Internet Explorer
joke hiding in there somewhere that I
can't find.
But the major point there is
a Figma desktop application it's
an electron app it's wrapping
the web app it's mostly the same.
Do you need it?
You do not need it.
Do you want it?
You are free to download it.
I will be using it today, as well.
Sometimes it's nice just to be able to
Command Tab in between two different apps.
One being your browser and the other one
being the Figma desktop application.
But there's nothing that we're gonna do
today that you need the desktop app for
that you could not use the web
application for as well.
There is a template file you
can kinda take a look at and
I'll show it to you right here.
Let's bring it over.
You can go basically go ahead
to this link and hit duplicate.
And then you will get your own
copy that you can work in.
Has all the course materials,
everything we go through today, and
some stuff that I'm not gonna
get through today as well.
Just kind of extra material there as
well you can kinda play around and
do the exercises there.
>> How easy is it to go from
Photoshop to something like Figma?
>> That depends right.
Figma will import sketch and
a lot of things like that all
depends if it is a flat JPEG file.
It's doable, right, one of the things
we'll look at today is I took
the screenshot of the front
end masters course page.
Which when I had this great idea I did
not realize that I was on the page.
But I also wasn't gonna take the time
to remove myself from the page,
because I'm an egomaniac.
So, I took this screenshot and
re implemented it by hand.
It took me two or
three hours, it wasn't fun.
But it didn't take it wasn't
a Herculean effort either, right?
It was something I did kind of while I was
doing other stuff during the course of
the day as well.
Mark any other question?
>> My designer is struggling to shift she
won't use storybook but loves Photoshop.
So do you can you make a case for Figma?
>> Yeah, I mean, so
one of the things we're gonna see as we
start to use Figma is that by default.
And we'll kinda go into this more in
depth as we work through the material.
We'll see that there's a lot
of stuff that kind of,
it's kind of meant for
building web interfaces, right?
So for stuff about,
if you really if you grab anything and
you hold down Option or Alt.
If you can see the distances
between anything you'd also go into
this inspect tab and
start to see at least some inspiration for
the CSS that you might write.
Now as we go through we look
at this we'll see that I use
the word inspiration very
deliberatively right.
Should you just will generate all
the CSS that you need perfect that you
can maintain forever?
It will not, right?
If that was the case,
we would all be unemployed.
So, but it will at least kind of give
you some here I'll set up the general
Flexbox pieces.
You don't have to go that same CSS tricks,
blog posts that I've been going to for
almost a decade now.
To remember the difference between
justify content and align items.
All right, so you get some of that
kind of starter pieces as well.
So it's definitely, I think there's a few
pieces right the idea that it is live and
collaborative.
Which means, as you can kinda see as your,
as your designers making changes.
You can see it as well versus,
do I have the most recent version of
the Photoshop file and
stuff along those lines.
So we're gonna cover you
know how to use Figma.
That seems important.
We're going to kind of think about
exactly how what the implications are for
us actually having implement some
of these designs as we go along.
And we're going to talk about the
foundation of building a design system one
does not build a design system in a day.
One does not build a design system
while also learning a tool for
building a design system all encompassing.
But we will kind of touch that topic and
kind of use it as an exemplar as
we learn our way around the tool.